Welcome back.
In this video we'll learn more than you ever thought you needed to know about the SVGA path element.
Here's a link to our Copen.
This is the most complex element we'll discuss and can be thought it was a broad generalization of the
line circle ranked in polygon elements.
In fact you can draw all of the shapes we've already drawn.
Just the path element but with great power often comes new syntax and the syntax of creating paths is
difficult to read.
In general if you're working with SVGA frequently you're more likely to use a drawing program to sketch
the SVGA and then export it so that the relevant path commands are automatically generated.
However it's good to know what these commands are doing.
So let's take a brief look.
The most important attribute for the path element is the D attribute.
This is where we describe the path to be drawn.
You can think of drawing a path similar to the way draw paths with a pencil on a piece of paper.
Our job now is to describe to the computer how we want it to move the pencil.
There are six fundamental commands we can use to draw paths.
The first one is the end command which just moves the cursor to the specified coordinates.
This is like you lifting your pencil off the paper and putting it down in any location.
The command does not draw anything.
It simply moves the cursor.
If we wanted to move the cursor to the point with coordinates 400 100.
This is what we'd write this moves the cursor 400 pixels over 100 pixels down.
Next is the L command.
This command draws a line from the cursors current position to whatever destination we specify.
By chaining all commands together we essentially get the same functionality we had the polygon command
from before.
Here's how we can draw a triangle for instance after moving the cursor.
We first draw a line down into the right then draw a line to the left then draw a line up into the right.
Let's also give our triangle a purple outline.
By default paths have no strokin to Blackville.
You can always change the color of the cell or set its value to none.
If you want an empty triangle notice that both of these commands use uppercase letters.
There are lowercase equivalents but they come with an important difference.
When you use uppercase letters in the past commands the numbers you pass in afterwards determine the
position you want to go to when you use lower case letters.
The numbers you pass and afterwards determine how far you want to go from your current position.
Feel free to use whichever commands are more intuitive to you.
In our case we could rewrite our triangle path as follows.
The cursor start to 0 0 so there's no difference between capital M and lowercase M for the first command.
After that moving to the point with coordinates 500 300 is equivalent to moving 100 pixels over 200
pixels down.
You can compare the last two commands in the similar way there are a couple of shorthands worth knowing
about as well.
When you want to draw a straight line from your current position back to the starting position you can
use the Z command which simply closes the path.
And if you want to draw a horizontal or vertical line you can use the H or V commands and omit the co-ordinate.
That isn't changing.
So we can simplify our previous path example a bit further so far so good.
But how is this different than the polygon element.
The key difference is that with the path element we can drill them into with curved edges as well as
straight line edges.
There are three types of curves we can draw with paths quadratics cubic Bezier curves and arcs of circles.
We won't get too much into the theory behind these curve types but very briefly quadratic curves taken
two points.
The second is a destination point and the first is a point that controls the shape of the curve.
Here are a few examples.
If you want more fine tuned control over the curve shape then you can pass three pairs of coordinates
into the C command.
The C command takes in two control points instead of one allowing you to draw a larger family of curves.
Here are some examples.
Lastly let's talk about the ark.
This one is a little tricky because of the values you have to pass in.
There are seven values you need for the command.
Some easier to describe than others.
The first two values are the radius and the direction and the radius in the wider section of the arc.
When these values are equal you'll draw the arc of a circle.
Otherwise you will draw the arc of an ellipse.
Let's ignore the middle three parameters for now the last two parameters specify your destination.
That is where you want the arc to move to.
Let's look at an example.
Imagine you have an s Weegee with these three elements inside of it.
A path within our command one circle at the start of the arc and another at the end.
As you can see this gives us a small green circular arc with two black circles on either end.
However this choice of Arc is somewhat arbitrary.
There are actually four possible arcs that could be made between these two points because there are
two circles we can draw based on those points and for each circle you can choose whether to draw the
larger arc or the smaller arc.
The arc that gets drawn is determined by the fourth and fifth arguments which both take on values of
0 or 1.
Here are all four possible combinations of these arguments.
What about that third value.
This controls the rotation of the arc per circular arcs.
It won't have an effect.
Since circles are symmetric.
But if you make the radius different so that you get an ellipse changing this value will rotate the
ellipse as you can see are elliptical arc is rotating.
Needless to say the ark command is fairly complex.
It's good to know that it exists but you'll rarely be drawing arcs manually in your text editor.
This covers our overview of Fiji.
Try to tackle the Viji exercises and when you're ready let's combine our knowledge of SVGA with what
we've learned about D-3.
I'll see you in the next video.